the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says he has told the United
States He opposes the establishment of a
Palestinian State once the conflict in
Gaza comes to an end in a news
conference Mr Netanyahu said Israel must
have security control of all territory
west of the River Jordan which would
include the territory of any future
Palestinian State there's been a
critical response from Washington US
state department spokesman said there
was no way to ensure Israel's long-term
sec security without a two-state
solution many nations including the US
have long called for a two-state
solution in which a future Palestinian
state would sit side by side with an
Israeli one Mr Netanyahu however has
spent much of his political career
opposing Palestinian statehood let's
have a listen to what he told Thursday's
news
conference in any arrangement in the
foreseeable future with a settlement or
without a settlement
Israel needs security control over all
territory west of the Jordan River this
is a necessary condition and it clashes
with the idea of Palestinian sovereignty
what can you do I tell this truth to our
American friends and I also stopped the
attempt to impose a reality on us that
would harm Israel's security the Prime
Minister needs to be capable of saying
no to our friends saying no when
necessary and saying yes when
possible benan yah who there Ben Menan
rad is a senior fellow at the University
of California burkel Center for
international relations and a lecturer
in Middle East studies he says he's not
surprised by Mr netanyahu's comments it
doesn't facilitate the pathway towards a
solution that I think will bring a
diplomatic end to the crisis but given
netanyahu's stance historically as your
U reporter indicated it's it's
consistent with his position for a long
while but it's it's not going to move
move things forward is it is he is he
being
realistic oh no he's not being realistic
I if the solution the goal is to get the
hostages released and to create a secure
and stable environment to prevent
incidents like October 7th from
happening it's by all accounts it's
difficult to do without creating a
viable pathway towards a Palestinian
State we're seeing divisions in
netanyahu's own cabinet over that very
same issue and I think very much he and
his uh right-wing members of his
Coalition stand alone on this um and
what do you make of him publicly uh
coming out to rebuke the United States
on
this well this is very much for internal
domestic consumption again he has
extremist members of his cabinet and
he's holding on to a very thin Coalition
in his ruling government so if he
doesn't come out and Proclaim and stake
these positions that he needs to
maintain he risks losing the support of
those members of parliament who are in
effect keeping him in power my colleague
the leaza Burak speaking to Benjamin rad